---
CIP: 32
Title: Royalties Standard CNFT Enhancement
Authors: Mateja Sela <mateja.sela@artano.io>, Sandip Pandey <sandip.pandey@artano.io>
Comments-URI: https://forum.cardano.org/t/cip-royalties-777-version-2-0/83665/10
Status: Draft
Type: Standards
Created: 2021-11-10
License: Apache-2.0
---

## Simple Summary

An enhancement for the current royalties standard https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0027 to decouple royalties from policy IDs, improve user-experience for 1/1 NFTs, collaborations and existing marketplaces. This is not meant as a replacement for the current standard, but an addition/enhancement.

## Abstract

This proposal is meant to improve the user experience, reduce approval times on existing marketplaces and decouple royalties from policy IDs. This propsal came to fruition after a CIP call with Cardano Foundation who recommended to write this enhancement CIP, and people from the Rokindo collective and ADAPH Stakepool, as well as artists on Tezos and ETH which are far ahead in terms of NFT implementation and marketplaces. Therefore, we planned not to propose to replace the existing standard, even though we believe that replacing it would reduce the costs of needing to write a no name token and significantly improve user experience.

## Motivation

The current design of the 777 standard was made to make it easier for larger collections to mint NFTs, those with centralized authority that decides the royalty percentage for all NFTs under a policy. However, the standard is not flexible for users who want to mint 1/1 NFTs and be recognized by their policyID in a collaboration. The future of marketplaces which rely on PolicyIDs to approve projects has also not been addressed (though this does not concern Artano, as we sell NFTs only minted on our platform by curated artsits).

The 1/1 artists would have to create a new policy ID just to be able to change royalties, which is redundant for 1/1 NFTs. They'd have to create a policy ID to add/remove other artists or projects, donate to organizations, collaborate with museums, galleries, etc. Each of these changes requires a new address, and therefore a new smart contract and policy ID. By enhancing the existing 777 standard, we can attract more talent to Cardano and make sure that royalties for both 1/1 artists and 100+ collections are equally supported.

## Specification

A new tag of 777 is proposed for this implementation. The community guidelines have been agreed as follows:

1. A new tag is added to the existing NFT
2. Add stuff here.

## Examples from the original proposal:

{
"777": {
"rate": "0.2",
"addr": "addr1v9nevxg9wunfck0gt7hpxuy0elnqygglme3u6l3nn5q5gnq5dc9un"
}
}

{
"777": {
"rate": "0.2",
"addr": [
"addr1q8g3dv6ptkgsafh7k5muggrvfde2szzmc2mqkcxpxn7c63l9znc9e3xa82h",
"pf39scc37tcu9ggy0l89gy2f9r2lf7husfvu8wh"
]
}
}

## Example with new proposal, with reduced byte count

Alternatively, we can save 10ish bytes by implementing the {rate/pct : addr} the following way.

{
"777":
{"0.2: "addr1v9nevxg9wunfck0gt7hpxuy0elnqygglme3u6l3nn5q5gnq5dc9un" }
}

{
"777": {
"0.2": [
"addr1q8g3dv6ptkgsafh7k5muggrvfde2szzmc2mqkcxpxn7c63l9znc9e3xa82h",
"pf39scc37tcu9ggy0l89gy2f9r2lf7husfvu8wh"
]
...
}
}

## Process Flow

1. Mint planned assets, irregardless of policy.
2. When the marketplace reads the policy, it checks whether it uses this standard or the fallback to the existing 777

## Rationale

The current proposal addresses the issue of distirbuting secondary sale royalties for larger collections, where there is one policyID for the collection. For 1/1 NFTs, collections or collaborations without centralized authority, as well as changes to the royalty itself, the current proposal suggests creating a new policy ID. The current solution might not scale over time, when there are thousands of creatives making 1/1 NFTs, where each NFT has its own royalty. We might have hundreds of thousands of artists, and each of them could have hundreds of policy IDs, since they will collaborate, or want to donate a part of their royalties to different NGOs with each NFT they mint.

Furtherly, there’s an unnecessary cost of minting an no name token, just to set a json object. The validity of the initial royalty, which was the concern of the previous propsal, can be checked via the ledger, aka, the first time an asset was minted.

## Change Log

## Initial proposal - August 14th, 2021

## Revised proposal - August 28th, 2021

## Minor Revision - August 31st, 2011

## Minor Revision - September 27th, 2021

## Minor Revision - November 8th, 2021

Copyright

This CIP is licensed under [CC-BY-4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode)
